## Executive Summary
The purpose of this project is to predict credit card approval by analyzing the impact of different fields on the approval for a credit card. Being able to predict what type of customer are likely to default on their payment comes in handy when dealing with approval of applicants of the credit card to avoid future risk. According to a data from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, in the first quarter of 2021, the 90-day failure to make outstanding payment was 9.98% compare with 9.09% at the same time in 2020.
            The dataset for credit card approval for prediction was taken from Kaggle. Approval of application for the credit card depends on number of factors such as their credit payment status, their total income earned, age, year of employment and so on. Using all the required features and through the use of predictive analytics and machine learning, patterns and relationship among the variables were analyzed. To create a model, we used logistic regression, decision tree, random forest, support vector classifier, KNN and XGBoost.
            
## Background
Credit card issuing institutions are becoming meticulous in approving credit cards for customers. In addition, the downturn of financial institutions during the US subprime mortgage and the European sovereign crisis has raised concerns about risk management properly.  Hence, these challenges have attracted significant attention from researchers and practitioners. A wide range of statistical and machine learning techniques have been developed to solve credit card related problems. It is found that machine learning techniques are superior to other traditional statistical techniques in dealing with credit scoring.
The decision of approving a credit card or loan is majorly dependent on the personal and financial background of the applicant. There are two basic risks: one is a business loss that results from not approving the good candidate, and the other is the financial loss that results from approving the candidate who is at bad risk. It is very important to manage credit risk and handle challenges efficiently for credit decisions as it can have adverse effects on credit management. Therefore, evaluation of credit approval is significant before jumping to any granting decision.


[Other Projects](https://github.com/RamizuddinS/DS_Portfolio)
